Ipa interface overview (#1)
KevinUTAT/oneAPI-samples_wenkaixu_fork: DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/Tutorials/Features/ip_authoring_interfaces/component_interfaces_comparison/pipes/Readme.md

# Streaming Data Interfaces (Pipes)
This implementation uses a register-mapped invocation interface, and demonstrates how to use pipes to configure a streaming data interface.

![](../assets/agent_n_pipe.svg)

## Invocation Interface
By default, an un-decorated oneAPI kernel will have all its control signals and arguments mapped into the IP component's control/status register (CSR).

## Data Interface - Streaming (Pipes)
Pipes are a first-in first-out (FIFO) buffer construct that provide links between elements of a design. In this design, interfaces `InputPipeA`, `InputPipeB`, `OutputPipeC` are implemented as  pipes.

### Declaring a Pipe

> Each pipe is a declaration of the templated `pipe`` class:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each pipe is a declaration of the templated `pipe` class:
```

```cpp
sycl::ext::intel::experimental::pipe<id, type, min_capacity, properties>;
```

> Detailed explanation for each parameters and a list of properties can be found in this dedicated [Streaming Data Interfaces](https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneAPI-samples/tree/master/DirectProgramming/C%2B%2BSYCL_FPGA/Tutorials/Features/ip_authoring_interfaces/streaming_data_interfaces) code sample.

Reviewer: Dead link.

Author: Yes, this link is pending this PR: https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneAPI-samples/pull/1863

Reviewer 2: You can replace this with an absolute link to where the sample will be located: `DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/Tutorials/Features/ip_authoring_interfaces/streaming_data_interfaces`

Github will deduce the appropriate branch where this belongs depending on the branch this sample is in.

>
> Linux*:
> - For system wide installations: `. /opt/intel/oneapi/setvars.sh`
> - For private installations: ` . ~/intel/oneapi/setvars.sh`
> - For non-POSIX shells, like csh, use the following command: `bash -c 'source <install-dir>/setvars.sh ; exec csh'`
>
> Windows*:
> - `C:\Program Files(x86)\Intel\oneAPI\setvars.bat`
> - Windows PowerShell*, use the following command: `cmd.exe "/K" '"C:\Program Files (x86)\Intel\oneAPI\setvars.bat" && powershell'`
>
> For more information on configuring environment variables, see [Use the setvars Script with Linux* or macOS*](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/oneapi-programming-guide/top/oneapi-development-environment-setup/use-the-setvars-script-with-linux-or-macos.html) or [Use the setvars Script with Windows*](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/oneapi-programming-guide/top/oneapi-development-environment-setup/use-the-setvars-script-with-windows.html).

### On Linux*

1. Change to the sample directory.
2. Configure the build system for the Agilex™ 7 device family, which is the default.

   ```
   mkdir build
   cd build

>    cmake ..

Reviewer: Is a `-DPART=<>` flag missing here? (Please double check other sub parts of the tutorial too).

Author: right, the build and run instruction is to be removed from the sub-readmes. Since they are all the same, they will only be in the top level readme

# Streaming Data Interfaces (Pipes)
This implementation uses a register-mapped invocation interface, and demonstrates how to use pipes to configure a streaming data interface.

![](../assets/agent_n_pipe.svg)

## Invocation Interface
By default, an un-decorated oneAPI kernel will have all its control signals and arguments mapped into the IP component's control/status register (CSR).

## Data Interface - Streaming (Pipes)

> Pipes are a first-in first-out (FIFO) buffer construct that provide links between elements of a design. Pipes that connect a host and a device are referred to as host pipes. In this design, interfaces `InputPipeA`, `InputPipeB`, `OutputPipeC` are implemented as host pipes.

Reviewer 3: Should we still be referring to "host pipes" here,  given that we've removed the name elsewhere? perhaps we can say something along the lines of:

Pipes are a first-in first-out (FIFO) buffer construct that provide links between elements of a design. In this design, we use pipes to implement `InputPipeA`, `InputPipeB` and `OutputPipeC` as streaming data interfaces.

> ### Declare Pipe

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Declaring a Pipe
```

> Each individual pipe is a program scope class declaration of the templated pipe class:

Reviewer 3: Paul brought this up in my sample -- is it program-scope, global-scope, or function-scope? I wonder if there are conflicting definitions between the docs and the existing code samples...? I just ended up saying:

_Each pipe is a declaration of the templated `pipe` class._

```cpp
sycl::ext::intel::experimental::pipe<id, type, min_capacity, properties>;
```

> Detailed explanation for each parameters and a list of properties can be found in this dedicated [host pipe](https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneAPI-samples/tree/master/DirectProgramming/C%2B%2BSYCL_FPGA/Tutorials/Features/experimental/hostpipes) code sample.

Reviewer 3: should this point to the IPA "host pipes" / streaming_data_interfaces sample I'm working on? as it's the one that's more targeted towards IPA users

> ### Example of Pipe declearation

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Example of Pipe Declaration
```

```cpp
using PipeProps = decltype(sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::properties(
    sycl::ext::intel::experimental::ready_latency<0>));
class ID_PipeA;
using InputPipeA =
    sycl::ext::intel::experimental::pipe<ID_PipeA, int, 0, PipeProps>;
```

### Pipe API

> Pipes expose read and write interfaces that allow a single element to be read or written in FIFO order to the pipe.

Reviewer 3: come to think of it, do we need to mention anything about the API here if we're linking to the other sample anyways? should we just refer users to that sample to avoid partially duplicating info that could get out of sync?

Reviewer 3: I think we would want to either repeat the information here in full (so the IPA samples are independent of the FS samples), or, refer users to the FS sample for all common information they share. That way for a given user, there is always just one source they should be referring to for each piece of information. For example here, we can make it clear that the Pipe API is identical for all applications of host pipes.

> Pipes expose read and write interfaces that allow a single element to be read or written in FIFO order to the pipe.
> 
> Go to [host pipe](https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneAPI-samples/tree/master/DirectProgramming/C%2B%2BSYCL_FPGA/Tutorials/Features/experimental/hostpipes) code sample for detailed read/write API.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Pipes expose read and write interfaces that allow a single element to be read or written in FIFO order to the pipe.

See the [Host Pipes](https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneAPI-samples/tree/master/DirectProgramming/C%2B%2BSYCL_FPGA/Tutorials/Features/experimental/hostpipes) code sample for more details on the read and write APIs.```

> > **Note:** \

Reviewer 3: I actually don't think we need to include these notes here since we are already linking to the other host pipes sample.

> Host pipe connections for a particular host pipe are inferred by the compiler from the presence of read and write calls to that host pipe in your code. 
>

> >A host pipe can be connected from the host only to a single kernel. That is, host pipe calls for a particular host pipe must be restricted to the same kernel.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
>A host pipe can only be connected from the host to a single kernel.
```

Reviewer 3: I don't think the second sentence is adding any new information; the first sentence on its own is already pretty clear.

>
>Host pipes can also operate in only one direction. That is, host-to-kernel or kernel-to host.
>

> >Host code for a particular host pipe can contain either only all writes or only all reads to that pipe, and the corresponding kernel code for the same host pipe can consist only of the opposite transaction.

Reviewer 3: I always found this line to be a convoluted way of saying the same thing as the line before, that host pipes only operate in one direction (which implies that each side (device and host) should contain only reads or only writes to a given pipe). what do you think?
